# Two-Player, Zero-Sum Game Engine
Simple AI engine written in C# that implements the [alpha–beta pruning algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha–beta_pruning) to create two-player, [zero-sum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-sum_game) games like [Tic Tac Toe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tic-tac-toe) or [Connect 4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connect_Four). 

Tic Tac Toe and Connect 4 are already implemented to serve as an example, but much more complex games could be created using this engine. In fact, with a good heuristic function, even a chess game *could* be implemented, although I reckon that many tweaks and performance improvements would most likely be needed – after all, this is nothing but a weekend project created out of boredom after being reminded of this algorithm by a colleague in a random conversation.

## Demo
There are two games already implemented, and each one has a console app that allows you to play it:

* In Tic Tac Toe, as the algorithm can analyse all the possibilities in the search tree, it is literally impossible to beat the machine.
* In Connect 4, even though the machine is usually good, it is possible to beat it – as the computer cannot study all the possible moves, it has to rely on the score generated by a heuristic function (this score for unfinished games indicates how likely the player is to win or lose).

## How to use it
To implement a game, it is necessary to define 3 models:

1. **Move**: Represents a move that a player could make. E.g. "Player 1 puts chip in column 3".
2. **State**: Represents the state of the game board. E.g. in a game like Connect 4, it will contain the information about where each chip is.
3. **Board**: Represents the game board and its mechanics. It has a reference to the *state* and implements and manages its changes, which will be caused by *moves*. This is where the rules and heuristics of the game will be implemented.

For more specific implementation details, the two games that are already in this repository can be used as a reference.

## License
```
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
